---
title:  PennController 1.8
tags: [versions]
---

[PennController 1.8](https://github.com/PennController/penncontroller/tree/master/releases/1.8){:target="_blank"}
is now available!

Newly created experiments on the PCIbex Farm come with it, and you can sync your
existing projects with the [master branch](https://github.com/PennController/Sync){:target="_blank"}
to update your version of PennController.

## Major changes from 1.7

### Added

+ General
  + Debugger window now includes PennController version.
  + A failed recording upload prompts participant to download an archive
  that contains the recordings before continuing.
+ New element types
  + [`EyeTracker` element]({{site.baseurl}}/elements/eyetracker){:target="_blank"}:
  Creates an eye-tracking data collector.
  + [`MediaRecorder` element]({{site.baseurl}}/elements/mediarecorder){:target="_blank"}:
  Creates an audio and/or video recorder. Replaces the now-deprecated.
  [`VoiceRecorder` element]({{site.baseurl}}/deprecated/voicerecorder){:target="_blank"}.
+ New global comands and methods
  + [`UploadRecordings`]({{site.baseurl}}/commands/global-commands/uploadrecordings){:target="_blank"}:
  Creates a trial that uploads the recordings collected by a **MediaRecorder** element.
  + [`EyeTrackerURL`]({{site.baseurl}}/commands/global-commands/eyetrackerurl){:target="_blank"}:
  Specifies an URL to send data collected by an **EyeTracker** element.
  + [`InitiateRecorder`]({{site.baseurl}}/commands/global-commands/initiaterecorder){:target="_blank"}
    + Optional parameter *`"MESSAGE"`*: Custom consent
    form message.
    + Method <code>.warning("<var>TEXT</var>")</code>
    + Method <code>.consent("<var>TEXT</var>")</code>

### Changed

+ General
  + Media recordings are now encoded as WEBM, OGG, or MP4, depending on
  the browser.
+ Elements
  + [`Scale` element]({{site.baseurl}}/elements/scale){:target="_blank"}:
  Updated aesthetics.
  + [`Text` element]({{site.baseurl}}/elements/text){:target="_blank"}:
  Initial and final spaces are now non-breakable.
+ Special commands
  + [`clear`]({{site.baseurl}}/commands/special-commands/clear){:target="_blank"}
  and
  [`end`]({{site.baseurl}}/commands/special-commands/end){:target="_blank"}:
  Can now be used inside a `.callback` command.

### Fixed

+ Elements
  + The container of an element added to the screen by a `.print(x, y)` command
  no longer remains on the screen after the trial ends.
  + [`Controller` element]({{site.baseurl}}/elements/controller){:target="_blank"}:
  Decluttered results file and fixed timeout feature.
  + [`DropDown` element]({{site.baseurl}}/elements/dropdown){:target="_blank"}:
  Fixed reference that was preventing test commands.
  + [`Key` element]({{site.baseurl}}/elements/key){:target="_blank"}:
  Fixed unsuccessful wait when focused element has been disabled.
  + [`MediaRecorder` element]({{site.baseurl}}/elements/mediarecorder){:target="_blank"}:
  Fixed automatic naming of files generated by a **MediaRecorder** element
  (previously, by a **VideoRecorder** element).
+ Element commands
  + [`selector.test.selected`]({{site.baseurl}}/elements/selector/selector-test-selected){:target="_blank"}:
  No longer crashes when no selection has happened.
  + [`mediarecorder.test.hasPlayed]({{site.baseurl}}/elements/mediarecorder/mediarecorder-test-hasplayer){:target="_blank"}:
  Formerly `videorecorder.test.hasPlayed`.

### Deprecated

+ Deprecated element type
  + [`VoiceRecorder` element]({{site.baseurl}}/deprecated/voicerecorder){:target="_blank"}:
  Replaced by the
  `MediaRecorder` element]({{site.baseurl}}/elements/mediarecorder){:target="_blank"}.
